# DATA
*Student has clearly described what the dataset is and why it's interesting.*

I decided to draw from Spotify's API to gather a robust and targeted set of data. The app has hundreds of millions of listeners each [month](https://deadline.com/2020/07/spotifys-q2-montly-active-users-jump-29-to-299-million-podcast-engagement-grows-but-losses-widen-stock-dips-1202998233/) and a diverse set of specialized [metrics](https://developer.spotify.com/documentation/web-api/reference/tracks/get-audio-features/), allowing users access to a giant array of useful, real world data. Using the API, I was able to generate two data sets of about 5,000 elements each. Both were generated by taking all the songs in the first 30 playlist results after searching "running" and "study". I will then compare them to a control data set, which is a random sampling taken from a [Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/yamaerenay/spotify-dataset-19212020-160k-tracks) data set that uses the same API.

# RESEARCH DESIGN

*Proposal has a clear research or business question.*

If you are a budding musician or producer, you may want to answer the question "How can I get my music on someone's playlist?" Now, it doesn't take a musician to know that such a question relies entirely on the individual. And if you are a musician, you're probably rolling your eyes at the thought of using some mathematical formulas to improve your music. I'm not here to do that. My goal is simply to point out real trends coming from real listeners that you can use to guide your creative process. Comparing the data from specific kinds of playlists to a general representation of all kinds of music, I can show there are attributes that are narrower and more defined within the realm of each type of playlist. Easiest of which are the more technical aspects, like tempo and amplitude, but also extending into the more nebulous aspects, like mood and energy. I will be using the standardized metrics that Spotify creates using audio analysis for each and every song in their library.